Final Project Submission (#1)
usf-portal/hacking-historical-texts-final: pages/background.md

[Home](https://michaelrappa.github.io/usa-migration/) |
[Analysis](https://michaelrappa.github.io/usa-migration/pages/analysis.html) |
[Background](https://michaelrappa.github.io/usa-migration/pages/background.html) |
[Reflections](https://michaelrappa.github.io/usa-migration/pages/reflections.html) |
[Workflow](https://michaelrappa.github.io/usa-migration/pages/workflow.html) |
[Credits](https://michaelrappa.github.io/usa-migration/pages/credits.html) |
[Bibliography](https://michaelrappa.github.io/usa-migration/pages/bibliography.html) |
[Sources](https://michaelrappa.github.io/usa-migration/pages/sources.html)

# Project Background

![Immigration]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/Opendomainimmigrationpic.jpg)

> 

Reviewer: You should add a credit to the open domain source here.

---
> "The United States is the only major world power
 today that owes its existence primarily to the phenomenon of
 immigration" - Ernest Rubin
 

> Our project will look at immigration into the United States. We will look at the major countries that have come to the United States and use data visualization to analyze trends in relation to major world events and immigration laws. The project will look at immigration laws and world events to see patterns or trends in the data and hope to come to conclusions with it. We will be using data found from credible sources and plugging them into Tablaeu to create the visualizations. 

Reviewer: Great, why not use present tense, sense you have (by now) completed the work of the project?

---

## Historical and Digital Background

> Immigration to the United States has been a staple to our country’s growth both culturally and economically since the nations birth. Historically, there has been multiple causes for immigration as Quinn states. He states that immigrants look to escape conflict, healthcare, escape poverty "The American Dream", provide opportunities toward children, and jobs. The past decade has put immigration up in political strife where the nation is divided on the current situation. Currently as it stands, Mexico is on top of the debate. There is a lot of push and pull for reasons on why Mexicans seek to immigrate here.  Aguila points out three categories for factors that cause immigration flows that can be used as a model for the rest of the countries in this project as well. These categories are:

Reviewer: You have a couple redundant and awkward phrases here. Also, you should add a citation here with a parenthetical note to make a clear reference to the bibliography.

> Immigration to the United States has been a staple to our country’s growth both culturally and economically since the nations birth. Historically, there has been multiple causes for immigration as Quinn states. He states that immigrants look to escape conflict, healthcare, escape poverty "The American Dream", provide opportunities toward children, and jobs. The past decade has put immigration up in political strife where the nation is divided on the current situation. Currently as it stands, Mexico is on top of the debate. There is a lot of push and pull for reasons on why Mexicans seek to immigrate here.  Aguila points out three categories for factors that cause immigration flows that can be used as a model for the rest of the countries in this project as well. These categories are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Immigration to the United States has been a staple to our country’s growth both culturally and economically since the nations birth. Historically, there has been multiple causes for immigration as Quinn states that immigrants look to escape conflict, healthcare,  poverty, and that 'The American Dream', provides opportunities toward children, and jobs (5). The past decade has put immigration up in political strife where the nation is divided on the current situation. Currently as it stands, Mexico is on top of the debate. There is a lot of push and pull for reasons on why Mexicans seek to immigrate here.  Aguila points out three categories for factors that cause immigration flows that can be used as a model for the rest of the countries in this project as well (11). These categories are:
```

* _Demand-Pull_ - This is the job availability in the United States when the wages are a significant difference than Mexico's. 
* _Supply-Push_ - This is the cause of economic stability in Mexico's economy or others that drive people out of the country.
* _Networks_ - Friends and Family that spark migration from existing residents of the United States

> With these categories this can be the base for looking at trends in data. Aguila also shows arguments proving that even low employment rates in Mexico along with decreasing poverty rates still showed a relatively steady pace of migration. Finally, her arguments with networks also serve as a key to migration as her data shows the growth of established communities creating social ties to employments and aiding new migrations to the same occupation. These occupations grow in sync with the growing wage workers and assist in the United States GDP over time. The data and explanations by Aguila are patterns and trends that can be applied to other population growths such as in European populations in the north east and Asian populations in the west of the United States of America. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these categories this can be the base for looking at trends in data. Aguila also shows arguments proving that even low employment rates in Mexico along with decreasing poverty rates still showed a relatively steady pace of migration. Finally, her arguments with networks also serve as a key to migration as her data shows the growth of established communities creating social ties to employments and aiding new migrations to the same occupation. These occupations grow in sync with the growing wage workers and assist in the United States GDP over time. The data and explanations by Aguila are patterns and trends that can be applied to other population growths such as in European populations in the north east and Asian populations in the west of the United States of America (11).
```

---

> A large basis for this project was to look at how immigration laws affected the migrant flow over time for the United States. Liskofsky points out in their journal of the roots of immigration that is plagued with racism and "Nordic" superiority over other countries. Historically, The United States has shown resentment towards every newcomer as Liskofsky argues. From Catholic's and Jew's to eventually the Chinese where we first witness exclusionary acts in 1882. This leads into further restrictions seen by the Japanese as well before the second world war which is why our data shows such staggering declines in immigration during the period. Following this period, Liskofsky disussed multiple displaces and refugee acts that would bring immigration back to the states. 

Reviewer: Great, way to be clear about the historiographical basis for this project! Again, add citations, even if you mention the authors by name in the main text. If it feels weird to just have a number like this (3), instead you could do something like this ([Bibliography, 3](bibliography.md))

I will stop mentioning citations from here forward.

Additional note: if you end up examining some of these claims (like claims about Jews or Japanese) in your visual analysis, go ahead and hint at that here (I haven't look at the analysis part as of reading this yet).

---

Finally, we looked at worldwide events that caused pattern shifts and trends in the visuals. With major causes of immigration coming from war, economy shifts, and family. Rubin covers a great deal of immigration between major wars that the United States was involved in. Rubin's data sheets all point out the demographs of immigrants during these times were to no one's surprise: white males. He points out the cause for immigration up until the First World War was due to increasing demand for unskilled labor as we progressed through and beyond the Industrial Revolution. As other data also suggests, Rubin notes that immigration came to a crawl between the two World Wars due to the conflicts in addition to new quotas in immigration. 

> It is only after the wars that we see a trend in the demographic. Up until the Hart-Celler Act of 1965, the United States saw a majority of women come into the states. This makes sense considering the fighting force for every nation were all young males during these periods of war. Other events that lined up with immigration laws seemed to also be the rising trend of civil war's in Central and Latin America. These wars with our data from Migration Policy Institute follow trends with increased immigration from the continent as more and more civil wars from such countries as Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador occur. From these sources of data, it is also worth noting the exclusion of African immigrants due to slavery and not being added in the data sets. In conclusion, we were able to find compelling arguments throughout sources such as JSTOR, credible websites, and government databases to support our own conclusions. 

Reviewer: Overall, really good job on the historiography!
